##### Presenting your work ######

Communicating your work clearly, enthusiastically, and often, is key to success. 

Speaking in lab meeting will allow you to practise presnting, and get feedback from colleagues
Speaking and presenting posters at conferences will bring your work to a wide audience of peers (and your furture reviewers, editors, and bosses!)
Disseminating our work to patients and patient advocates is vital in alleviating the stigma of mental illness!

Here are a few pointers about how to present your work:

In Lab Meetings:

Plan to speak for about 40 minutes. That means you need about 40 easy slides. 
Psychgen lab meetings are chatty, so expect to be interrupted often. Lots of questions mean that people are interested in your work, and want to understand and help you. 
Also note that psychgen lab meetings include lots of different types of researchers: statisticians, clinicians, wet lab biologists, tenured professors, high school research placement students. It's impossible to tailor your talk to everyone, but we should all be able to understand the goals, motivations, and analytical steps.

1. Start with a general slide explaining the most interesting questions. If you've presented on this topic before, you can keep this fairly brief. If it's the first time, or there are lots of new people in the room, it's worth spending a bit more time on this.

2. Give a general overview of the literature and existing work by other groups in this area.

3. If this is early in your project, present your analysis plan. Explain each step of your planned analysis, why you're interested, and how you'll answer the questions.
   Identify any things you're unsure about, or you'd like feedback on, and schedule some time to dicuss these with the group.
   
   If this is a well established project, present your progress to date, or the latest analysis you're working on. Every step should be introduced with your motivation for carrying out the work.
   
   At every step of the analysis, be clear about how you are testing for significance. For example, don't say "Gene expression is correlated with phenotype". Say "Gene expression (measured using RNA-seq) is significantly correlated with phenotype. The test was pearson correlation; rho=x, p=y. The phenotype was defined using ICD-9 codes"
   
4. Describe your next steps. How will you follow up these results? What's the next analysis? 

5. Have an achknowledgement slide. Thank your collaborators, the consortia who collected the data, the people who gave you advice or code.

In WIP seminars:

These are similar to lab meetings. You can expect an audience of largely phd students and postdocs. 
Structure your talks largely the same way as you would for a lab meeting. 
However, it is likely there will be fewer questions and less detailed discussion than at a psychgen meeting. 
You may also need to give more introduction to the psychiatric phenotype(s) you are studying - most people will not have a psych background.

Please invite the Huckins Lab, and the psychgen team, to attend your WIPs. We are here to support you!

At Conferences:

Conference presentations are a little different to lab meetings. They will generally take the format of either a poster presentation, or a 15-minute talk. 
The work we present at conferences should be thoughtful, polished, and nearly ready for publication. Think of this as your opportunity to tell people a few really exciting things about your project. Choose them carefully, and explain them carefully and enthusiastically. 

If you have a poster presentation:

1. Use the Mount Sinai poster template
2. Write succint, clear descriptions of you goals, motivations, and methods. These can be sentences, or bullet points. Do not write whole paragraphs. No one will read them!
3. Choose two or three figures or tables that summarise your project. Choose figures that display all the data (like scatterplots), include errors bars if relevant, and remember to include rho- and p-values (etc) in your legends.
   It's nice when all figures follow the same colour scheme. Use colour-blind friendly colours. (For more information, see 'manuscript and figure guidelines')
4. Write a concluding sentence about each of your figures or findings. 
5. Include a paragraph about future work if relevant
6. How can people contact you if they want to discuss your poster? Include an 'email me' or a 'tweet @me' box on the poster. (It's fine to include the HuckinsLab twitter handle here!)
7. Prepare your poster well in advance of the meeting. Review all posters with Dr. Huckins at least one week before the meeting, and before sending to print. 
8. Practise presenting your poster! Ask a few colleagues and friends to help you. Stand in front of your poster (or laptop) and try explaining the main points in two minutes. 
   Most people who come to visit your poster will have limited time, and will be grateful to hear a clear and well practised description of your work.
   
  
If you have a talk:

You will likely have 15 minutes. Assign 12 for the talk, 3 for questions. 
These talks can be daunting, but they dont need to be. The audience really wants you to do well. They want to listen to an exciting talk from an awesome young scientist. Their goal is to learn something!
Help keep the audience engaged. Speak directly to them. Look directly at the room and make eye contact. If there's an analysis that was exciting for you, tell them! If you think your analysis is interesting and important, they will too. 

Talk portion:

1. Introduce yourself. Thank the organisers for inviting you to give a talk. Tell everyone how exicted you are to tell them about your work. Take a breath.
2. Introduce the question. Tell them the 'big picture'
3. Introduce the motivation. Why is this important? What's wrong with what we had before?
4. Tell them how you're going to solve the problem. Keep it clear and straightforward. You don't need to tell them about the analyses that failed, or the ones that arent directly relevant to this talk. If you like, you can say something like "I don't have time to tell you about all the statistical work I did underlying the choice of the elastic net regression model. If you're interested, please ask me about it in the question session". (If you're especially prepared, make some slides about these 'other' interesting topics, and keep them at the end of your slidedeck. You can refer to them in the Q&A.
5. Take them step-by-step through your results. Each results slide should be a single large figure. Keep the colours bright and consistent. Make your font labels really big, and keep all your pvalues, rho values, etc, on the slides.
   Each results slide should lead on to the next. They should understand why analysis 1 leads to analysis 2.
6. Sometimes it helps to put a blank slide between your results slides. People have a tendency to read your slide, and focus on the figure, instead of listening. If you want to explain something in more detail, or talk about your conclusions, use a blank slide, and just talk for a minute. This will have the added bonus of shifting all the attention in the room back to what you are saying.
   For example:
   
   Slide 1: Correlation of GREX with RNA-seq in whole blood. Show plot, pvalues, rho values, etc. 
   Slide 2: Blank. That analysis helped me to establish that the GREX calculations are reliable. I was confident that the gene expression we predict is real, and accurate. Therefore, I moved on to predicting gene expression in the brain. This was an exciting step for me!
   Slide 3: Predicted gene expression in the brain.

7. Give three or four concluding sentences. They should follow obviously from the results you presented.
8. If relevant, tell them about the next steps in your analysis.
9. Thank everyone involved! Collaborators, psychgen, the Huckins Lab, people who gave you data/advice/code. Include logos for all consortia
10. Finally, tell them how they can contact you at this meeting! If you (or a lab member) has another related poster/talk, tell them when & where. 
    If this work is published/biorxivd, put the reference on the final slide and leave it up during the question section.
    
Some tips on preparing for the talk:

First, write out what you want to say in bullet point form, or draw out slides & talk flow on paper beforehand.
Translate these to talk slides following the above format. Discuss the talk flow with Dr. Huckins and other lab members.

If you have a well-rehearsed couple of slides that describe the method well, use them in your talk. We don't want to recycle whole talks, but if you have a polished 'introduction to GWAS' slide, put it in. It'll help keep you on time and calm, and it will look polished.

Find an empty conference room, or take some time at home, and go through your talk out loud. 
The first time, make sure the slides actually match what yu want to say. Refine your slides if necessary.
Next, practise talking through your slides in ~15 minutes. Make sure you are speaking clearly and slowly. If it takes too long, remove some slides if necessary.
It helps me to 'learn' a few sets of sentences or 'slide joining phrases' off by heart. This helps keep me on track throughout my talk. Even if I ramble or lose focus, I know exactly what words to say at the beginning of the next slide. Knowing what's coming next helps keep me calm, and makes me look organised to the audience.
Once you've gone through the talk a couple of times, stop. Do something else. Come back to it a few days later, and run through it again. 

All conference talks must be rehearsed at psychgen lab meetings prior to the conference. Have your slides finished and polished by the rehearsal time. Book a slot to present at lab meeting as soon as you know you're giving a talk.
If there are parts of the talk that are especially tricky, flag these to lab members so we can help you develop them.
    
Q&A portion:

Practise a few questions and answers before the conference, either on your own, or at the practise psychgen presentation.

Keep calm. People are asking questions because they are interested in your work. They are not trying to catch you out. If you don't know an answer, just admit it.

Hopefully, you have gently suggested a few questions throughout your talk. (See above:  "I don't have time to tell you about all the statistical work I did underlying the choice of the elastic net regression model. If you're interested, please ask me about it in the question session".)
Prepare some slides addressing these things, and be ready to discuss them. 
Helpful chairs/moderators/PIs in the audience will remember that you mentioned this, and will ask you questions about those topics. 
(Incidentally, if you go to a talk, these are great things to ask questions about! The speaker will be glad someone asked them an easy question that they've prepared for.)

Some people ask long 'questions' that are really statements about their own work. They will end with "What do you think about that?". These are not good questions. You are not required to know everything about their work. It's ok to say "That's interesting. We will look into that". 
It's the chair/moderator's job to avoid the 'soliloquy as question', and to shut it down. Hopefully, they will, and this won't take up too much of your question time!



