Coronavirus (COVID-19) Response plan.

I expect that this document will change and be updated, as advice evolves and the situation unfolds.

My position on this is straightforward: it is our moral duty to protect our society and community. It is our responsibility to keep our friends, families and chosen families, and communities safe and healthy. 
The health risks to most of us are low; please do not panic or worry unduly. Our goal here is to protect the public.

So, in the short term (March), here are the rules that our lab will follow:

1. Work from home- do not come into work, do not work in a coffee shop. Staying at home, and social isolation in general, will significantly slow the spread of disease. 

Some of you may feel that this is premature. I do not: our situation is changing, rapidly; case numbers are growing exponentially. There is no way to pinpoint the 'right time'; only 'too early' or 'too late'. The time for waiting and seeing what will happen has passed; it is time for us to take action, now, before it's too late. 
Ideally, these measures will work; the disease will be slowed, and our community will stay healthy. If, in retrospect, these measures appear overblown or premature, that's great- it means this worked.

To make working from home easier, we'll institute a few new policies:

A. All 1-1 meetings will take place over zoom or, if zoom fails, over slack calls.
B. Office hours will continue. On tuesdays, wednesdays, thursdays, 11-2pm, I will keep a zoom line open while I work, and will share the link with you all. You can 'pop in' for a quick question or a chat about anything during those hours- just like popping into my office.
C. Lab meetings will continue, Fridays at 10am. The schedule will be relatively unchanged.
D. Regular virtual coffee breaks/pet parades! Especialy for those of us working from home alone, it'll be nice to have a time to chat. Attendance non-compulsory. I'll keep that zoom line open for everyone daily at 3pm.

2. Travel: following sinai policy:
All WORK-RELATED international and domestic travel is prohibited. In limited and specific circumstances, managers/supervisors may allow exceptions to this policy.
All PERSONAL international and domestic travel -outside New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Connecticut -requires approval (or re-approval ifalready booked) by the manager/supervisor.
This policy is effective as of Monday, March 16 through April 30. We will re-assess in mid-April and extend, if necessary

3. Financial hardship

I hope that none of you will suffer any financial hardships due to this situation. I foresee no impact on salaries or PTO as a result of these policies.
However, there may be some other issues that cause financial hardship- needing to cancel travel, replace computer hardware, etc. Please contact me and we will deal with these as and when they become an issue.

For travel, according to the Sinai policy document:
If you made work-related travelarrangements through Amex Global, you can get help canceling or rescheduling. 
If any additional costs outside Amex Global, that aren’t waived or reimbursed, you should submit through the normal travel voucher process for reimbursement withdocumentation. 
We understand that there may be a cost to cancelling personal travel under this policy. If any costs aren’t waived or reimbursed, you should submit for reimbursement consideration with documentation to ryan . keneally@mountsinai . org
