In order for us to be a productive and happy lab, it's essential that we all understand what we can expect from each other.

In addition to everything listed here, all lab members are expected to abide by our code of conduct at all lab and lab-related events.

Analytical Expectations: 

1. Be thoughtful in your analyses and science. Good analyses are thoughtfully designed and well planned and prepared. Take the time to think through your analyses!

   1B. Make an analysis plan!

2. Be adventurous. Try ambitious analyses. Ask controversial questions! Just make sure these questions have thoughful motivations.

3. Be inquisitive. Read widely, go to seminars, ask questions of speakers. Make it your goal to ask a question in the psychgen lab meeting every week.

4. Be resourceful. Think of extensions and next steps to your analyses, and run with them! Investigate new software packages, follow your science idols on twitter, do whatever it takes to research your ideas.

5. Be persistent. Experiments fail, analyses lead nowhere, and p>0.05. Keep trying. Make plans for alternative analyses in your analysis plan! 
   At the same time, negative results needn't mean a dead end for your project. Thoughtful, well-executed science is always of interest to the community. If it was an interesting question, others will be interested in your results! 

Lab Culture Expectations:

1. Be present. We have an open office environment that is ideal for collaboration and bouncing ideas off colleagues and friends. 
   Please be present in the office from 10am-4pm every day.

2. Be an active member of the psychgen community. Our lab 'sits' in the Pamela Sklar Division of Psychiatric Genomics. I expect Huckins lab members to be active members of the wider psychgen community. Go to psychgen lab meetings, WIPs, seminars, and ask questions.
  
3. Be a member of the wider sinai community. Go to seminars. Attend Phd/PostDoc events. Offer advice to colleagues. PostDocs, pursue collaborations if they interest you! Being at Sinai is a fantastic resource that you should take full advantage of.

4. Be respectful. Be on time to all meetings. Be attentive during presentations in lab meeting. Note taking is fine, but playing on your phone is disrespectful. 
   
5. Don't work weekends. Or evenings. Science is a marathon, not a sprint, and working every hour of the day will only lead to exhaustion and a miserable PhD/PostDoc! Take the weekends to enjoy New York City. 
   (Of course, for those of you with clinical duties and nightshifts, this is a bit different). 
   If you are organised and well prepared, I fully believe you can accomplish just as much in a regular working week.  
   
6. Be honest about your time. In order for (5) to work, I need to set reasonable goals. For example, I will not ask you in a meeting on Friday to have something complete by Monday morning. 
   In return, we need to work together to set reasonable and achievable goals. Be realistic, not optimistic.
   
7. Meet deadlines. Do not assume I will proof-read or give feedback over the weekend, or late at night. 




