Congratulations, you're ready to write a manuscript! Here are some formatting steps to take to make the process smooth & straightforward.
This applies only to scientific manuscripts (ie, not Theses, Reviews, etc). 

Organisation:

All of our manuscripts (ie, where any of the lab are first author) are written in word. 
Use double-spacing
Use continuous line numbering throughout
Use 'page breaks' to create new sections for each of:
  TITLE PAGE
  ABSTRACT
  INTRODUCTION
  METHODS
  RESULTS
  DISCUSSION
  REFERENCES
  DATA ACCESS
  ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
  

All of our files are stored and shared in dropbox. Please create & share a dropbox folder named: "1stAuthor_SURNAME_TITLE" (if title is too long, a few descriptive words are fine. Eg: Johnson_AN_GREX)
DO NOT omit your surname! 
The dropbox folder should have the following sub-folders:
    AUTHOR GUIDELINES (save the target journal guidelines here)
    AUTHOR SPREADSHEET
    00_FORUPLOAD
    00_RESUBMISSION
    COMMENTS FROM COAUTHORS
    COVER LETTER
    MAIN MANUSCRIPT
    MAIN FIGURES
    MAIN TABLES
    SUPL FIGURES
    SUPL TABLES
    SUPL INFO
    USEFUL FILES
    
    
References:
You MUST use a reference manager. 
I will NOT read or edit manuscripts that include manually entered references: the risk of deleting references, or losing refernce order, is too high. 
I highly recommend Zotero- if you use any other reference manager you must include the bibtex file for the library in the 'useful files' dropbox subfolder.

Authors:
Deciding who to add as an author can be tricky! 
Ask yourself these questions (or ask me if you don't know the answer):
  Who has contributed meaningfully and intellectually to this project?
  Who has created the figures and data included in this manucsript?
  who did I go to for substantial advice and input?
  Who made this project possible? (Or: if this person wasn't involved, would this project have been possible?)

Undergrads, technicians, interns, summer students, etc, often get left wrongly off author lists- if they meet any of the categories above, please include them! 
Also remember that data QC, sample prep, etc are all key to running our analyses and the folks who did this deserve recognition.
We do not give 'gift' authorships- that is, authorship to folks who did not participate in the work described. (EG- some institutions will automatically add the department or division head to every paper. We do not do this).
Also remember that data QC, sample prep, etc are all key to running our analyses and the folks who did this deserve recognition.

Formatting author lists is also tricky! Make your life easier by creating an author spreadsheet right at the start of the writing process, and include these categories:
Last	First	Middle_Initial	Degree	Author_Role	Title	Email	Phone	ORCID	Company_and/or_Institution	Country	Funding_relevant_to_this_manuscript	Acknowledgements_relevant_to_this_publication	Discosures/Competing_Interestes/COI	Author_Contributions (literature search, figures, study design, data collection, data analysis, data interpretation, writing)


FAQs:

How do I keep the sections neat in my word document?
  Use Page-Break at the beginning of each section
  
How do I make a single page landscape (eg, for a table)?
  Set a 'section break' before and after the single page, and then select 'landscape' for that page only
