#### Making an Analysis Plan ####

We start new projects by devising an analysis plan. Depending on your role within the lab, and the type of project, you may do this alone, in lab meeting, or in a one-on-one with Dr. Huckins.
The Analysis Plan will take shape something like this:

1. What questions do I want to answer? What is the motivation for these questions?
For example: 

Question: Is genetically regulated gene expression (GREX) in the brain associated with schizophrenia?
Motivation: We have a lot of GWAS hits for schizophrenia, but they're hard to interpret. 
            I can predict genetically regulated gene expression from GWAS reliably. 

2. What data will I need to answer these questions? Can I use available software, or might I need to develop a new algorithm?

3. Devise a simple pilot experiment or proof-of-concept study.
For example:

I know FURIN expression is associated with schizophrenia (from the first CommonMind Paper, Fromer et al 2016). Is FURIN GREX associated with schizophrenia in my analysis? 

4. Think about the steps required to answer your questions. Have a one-sentence plan for each stage of the analysis. 
For example:

  i) Predict GREX for cases and controls in whole blood. I will use prediXcan and the existing GTEX whole blood prediction model.
  ii) Compare whole blood GREX to whole blood RNA-seq. I will plot RNA-seq vs GREX for all genes with prediction R2>0.01
  iii) IF step 2 works, predict GREX in the brain for cases and controls.
  iv) Run a case-control association test for each tissue.

5. Think about how you will test for significance BEFORE you run a test.
For example:

I will test for association between GREX of 10,000 genes and schizophrenia case-control status. 
I will correct for multiple testing using a bonferroni correction (ie, p<0.05/10000).

6. Think about what you will do if each step works, or doesnt work. What follow-up analyses could you try if something fails? What secondary analyses might be exciting if something works?

7. Plan out a rough timeline. This should be as realistic as possible, not as optimistic as possible. Factor in time for analyses to fail. 
   Schedule a lab meeting presentation slot to describe your analysis plan to everyone. 
  
8. Type up a one-page analysis plan. Save it to the project dropbox. Discuss it with Dr. Huckins at your next one-on-one. 

Congratulations, you can start work on your new idea!












