This file describes our travel policies to work events and conferences. This DOES NOT apply to vacation or personal travel.

1. Eligibility.
In order to attend a conference you need to submit an abstract. That abstract must be polished, approved by co-authors, and describe work that will be polished by the time of the conference (ie, ready for biorxiv by the conference, or soon thereafter). We do not submit preliminary work to major conferences.
The exception to this is first-year PhD students: you may attend one of ASHG/WCPG in the first year of your time in the lab, without submitting an abstract.

2. Which conferences?
The major conferences for our field are WCPG, ASHG, ACNP, SOBP, IGES. For eating disorder researchers, you may also consider ICED or EDRS.
If there is a relevant conference you would like to attend, let me know and we can discuss.

I have allocated funding for one conference/lab member (with an abstract) per year.
Exceptions to this rule:
Work of exceptional merit (ie, being considered for a young investigator award at a conference)
Lab members obtaining external funding (eg, conference travel awards, sinai travel awards, own grants)
Local conferences (NYC), which do not require flight or hotel costs.

3. Behaviour at conferences.
While you are at a conference, our code of conduct applies. 
You can also expect others to treat you according to this code. Being in a conference setting does not excuse behaviour that would not be acceptable in a more formal office setting. If you feel uncomfortable at a conference for any reason, please contact Dr. Huckins or another PsychGen PI.

4. When to travel?
Please plan to arrive the day before the conference formally begins. If you are planning to attend eductaional days or workshops that begin prior to the conference, factor that into your travel plans.

If you'd like to take a few days to explore the conference city, that's fine! Some guidelines on this:
If the extra days fall on a weekday, please take them as vacation time. If they fall on a weekend, you're free to do as you wish.
In general, please aim for days after, rather than before the conference- that makes it easier to coordinate poster printing and talk rehearsals. 
You're free to continue to stay in the conference hotel, or to switch hotels. You can reimburse only the nights in hotels that fall around the conference- from the day before the program officially starts, to the day after it officially ends.

5. Sinai-wide rules
In order to travel, you MUST submit a travel request in sinai central. Refer to the most recent sinai travel policy for how to do this.
You must submit your request with as much notice as possible- ideally, at least one month prior to travel, in order to have time for the request to be approved.
Students and postdocs may request a travel advance for the trip, to cover registration, hotel, travel, and per diems. I HIGHLY recommend that you do this- reimbursements are not immediate, and may take some time especially in conference season (Oct-Dec).

Please refer to the sinai policies for per diems.

You must book air travel through Sinai, and it must comply with the 'fly america' act, unless exceptional circumstances apply (eg, no flight for your destination complies with the act).

If several lab members are travelling to a conference together, please coordinate travel to and from airports if at all possible. 
